
                PT2 Unregistered Version Data Contents
                           by J. Patrikainen


  1.1 Foreword

  2.0 Weapons.dat
	2.1 Sidearms
	2.2 Shotguns
	2.3 Submachineguns
	2.4 Assault rifles
	2.5 Gyro weapons & Launchers
	2.6 Energy weapons
	2.7 Melee weapons
	2.8 Grenades & Explosives

  3.0 Items.dat
	3.1 Flares
	3.2 Medikits
	3.3 Armors

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

	1.1 Foreword

	This file was created to explain some of the ideas I used in PT2
weapon.dat file. This is a production of my bizarre imagination mixed with
some ideas from movies, RPGs and the old PT versions. Some players wanted
pictures of the weapons to the PT2. I hope that this file gives you the
information you need about the data included.


	2.0 Weapons.dat 
 
	The weapons in this set are quite powerful because we wanted to add
some futuristic atmosphere to the game. If you aren't satisfied with
the weapons, you'll have to register your copy of Payback Time 2 and use
the editors to create your own gamesets. In this way you can achieve
the atmosphere you want.
 
	"Wanna have some guns buddy? Just name your goodies.
Eh, phaserstuff? ...No problem here. If you just have the dough,
you can have anything you want."
				                        -Fixer Laude
 
	2.1 Sidearms 
 
- .44 Renegade 
Newest version of the good old Magnum revolver for people who like 
dirty tricks and Dirty Harry. Inaccurate, slow and clumsy but sooo
powerful. Used by troops who are short of money and supplies. Notice the short
range and the small clip.
  
- Street Master 
A futuristic 9mm heavy pistol designed for Gyro Fighter pilots. The massive
overproduction caused these weapons to drift to street markets. It was soon
given a name Street Master for this reason. Nowadays mostly used by gangs and
mercenary troops. Notice the short effective range and the large clip.
 
	2.2 Shotguns 
 
- Randal Shotgun 
A standard police shotgun that can be found almost anywhere. The armor
penetrating shells make this weapon highly effective in good hands.
Notice that this weapon is accurate only at short range.
  
- Randal CAWFISH 
A full automatic shotgun with a nickname "The cop killer". The government
forces have used this weapon in assaults and assassinations. Armor piercing
shells make this weapon the ultimate house cleaner. Notice that this
weapon is accurate only at short range.
   
	2.3 Submachine guns 
 
- Synapse SMG 
A light smg designed as assault weapon for use of special forces. Made
famous by the legendary Fixer Laude who used one synapse at each hand.
Laude vanished somewhere in the east while fighting in the Com wars.
It's rumored that Laude is still alive fighting with some underground
movement against companies. Highly inaccurate in inexperienced hands but
massive firepower covers the minor problem. Notice the extra large clip.
 
- Neon Stormer SMG
Designed by Dr. Armani who creates fashion weapons & armors for bodyguards
and rich kids. Neon Inc. produces Stormer SMG with various color options.
"Be Neon, Buy Neon". Notice the large clip and the good accuracy (for an SMG).
 
	2.4 Assault rifles 
 
- Randal AR-90 
Randal syndicate has made this weapon their number one seller in no time.
It is most widely used weapon in the whole world. Only the price makes it
hard to get for a green team. AR-90 is known for its loose firing mechanism.
They can bury you five feet under with it for years, and when somebody finds
your bones (or whatever is left of you), the gun should be fully
operative (contradictory to your condition).
     
- Renegade HAR 
A heavy assault rifle used by The Company Mercenary Troops. Included with advanced
targeting systems and a full clip. Notice the impressive firepower and
the small clip.
 
	2.5 Gyro weapons & Launchers
 
- Randal Gyro rifle 
The gyro weapons are pretty new technology at the moment. They make loud
sounds and the shots bounce here and there before exploding. However, many
organized troops do use these gadgets. It's a good idea
(actually, a very good idea) to be in open area when shooting. Notice
the small clip and the poor accuracy.
 
- Gyro-A Cannon 
The Gyro Auto Cannon is an awesome weapon in veteran hands. Its auto fire
capabilities spit bouncing gyro ammo towards the target seeding deadly
fire fields over a wide area. It was designed to spread terror in the battle
fields (I think the designers did a very nice job here). Again it's a good
idea to be in open when shooting, since the weapon is quite inaccurate.
Notice the small clip.

- Missile Launcher 
A widely used standard missile launcher from The Randal syndicate. Medium
explosion radius. Medium range. Medium damage. Lots of dead people.
Also very effective against medium armored vehicles and buildings.
It is not recommended to hand these devices into any inexperienced hands.

- Z-War LRATML 
A Long Range Antitank Missile Launcher with a next generation targeting
guidance systems and smart missiles. Medium explosion radius, effective
against armored vehicles and heavy buildings. Slow but easy to use and hard
to find. Famous for the funny beep sounds of the seeking smart missiles.
(or atleast funny, when heared furthering away.) One smart missile is
supplied with the launcher.
 
	2.6 Energy weapons 
 
- Omen Pulse Rifle 
Omen is the leading pulse weapon brand. The pulse rifle is their first field
tested pulse weapon. It sends rapidly short frequenced narrow fixed light
beams which cause damage to the tissue and armor.  Notice the short clip.

- Omen Pulse Sniper
Omen's sniper rifle has the most advanced targeting systems ever built in the
business of death. After its release to the markets it soon pushed all the
traditional sniper rifles out of the markets. It sends rapidly short
frequenced narrow fixed light beams which cause damage to the tissue and armor. Notice the
Great guarding fire possibilities at a long range.
 
- Omen Heavy Blast 
Heavies of the Omen weapons. It was created for tank busting because it's
too slow to use for normal combat situations. Sends a huge blast of
light beams which rapidly change their frequency and cause a massive amount
of damage to the tissue and armor. Notice that with the maximum burst power
you can only shoot twice before the clip is empty.
 
- Phaser Cannon 
Choice of a true warrior. This is maybe the most bizarre weapon in the set
and also the most experimental. Nobody really seems to know how it actually
works but who cares. As long as it makes some serious damage, everybody is
happy... (well, maybe not the target). It costs 50 000 credits and you
probably won't hit a thing but it should make some really big holes and
disintegrate the possible targets...  Well atleast it's supposed to.
Allegedly.
 
	2.7 Melee weapons 
 
- Butcher Knife 
A battle knife manufactured of the latest steel plastics.
A lifetime guarantee.

- Omen Katana 
One of the Omen melee combat applications made on the forever popular samurai
theme. Prism near the guard sends short frequenced narrow fixed light
beams that boost up the blade's temperature when the katana hits something.
This causes damage to the tissue and armor.
 
- Fingertip Lasers 
Small glove with newest hightech in it. With this melee weapon you won't
need any education on martial arts. You just can't miss. Notice that
this weapon is very fast to use.  
 
- Combat Trident 
The Legendary Combat Trident with new more powerful features.
Hit and you most certainly don't have to run. This is all you need.
A promise.
 
	2.8 Grenades & Explosives
 
- Fragment Grenade 
A basic antipersonnel grenade used anywhere in the world.  When exploding
it scatters lethal shrapnel over a medium area. Notice the low price.
 
- Pulse Grenade 
An Omen application on explosive markets. Sends a burst of short frequenced
fixed light waves that rapidly change the temperature in a small area.
This causes some serious heat damage to the targets.
 
- Slam & Forget Trap 
Invented for door trapping. You just trap it between the door and it will
explode if someone tries to open the door.  Notice that you can also use this
explosive as a normal grenade if you want to.
 
- K-8 Explosive  
The legendary "Kasis" in a new package. More range. More Power. Ehrm...
More price. 
 
	3.0 Items.dat 
 
	We have only included some basic items for you in this set. If you
want more of them you'll have to register your copy of PaybackTime 2.
 
	3.1 Flares 
 
- Small Flare 
If you know where your target is but it's rather hard to hit him due to
the darkness then use this one.
 
- Medium Flare 
If you want to find someone without too much light use this one. 
 
- Large Flare 
If you have to play hide and seek then use this one.  

 
	3.2 Medikits 
 
- First Aid Set 
Pharmacoms First Aid Set for emergency. Everyone should have one of these
nowadays. 
 
- First Aid Pack 
Pharmacon has now created a new First Aid Pack for men in busines. 
 
- Field Medikit 
Field doctors medikit from Pharmacom.
 
- Improved Medikit 
Hospital class doctor medikit from Pharmacom. Only for professional use.
Or atleast so it says on the package.
	
	3.3 Armors 
 
- CA-1 Kevlar 
Full body kevlar padding.  Clumsy in real action and doesn't give too much
of a protection. Still in wide use due to it's budget price.
 
- CA-3 Kinetic 
Very popular armor among mercenaries due to the low price and the
easiness to maintain.
 
- CA-5 Kinetic 
This armor is constructed of two layers of thick kinetic plating. It's
pretty heavy but it should stop most hits caused by handguns.
 
- CA-8 Kinetic B 
Kinetic B was created in order to get better and lighter armors. Here is
an armor where kinetic B was used. This armor was never a great success
due to its hard to maintaining problems.
 
- Neon Urban Armor 
Dr. Armani's first creations in the business. Street gangs and citizens who
wanted some protection quietly, found this cheap and light armor.
Neon armors are supplied with custom colors.
 
- Neon Hitman Suit 
Dr. Armanis classic creation in the armor business. It's a fine cut Armani
suit with the classical style and elegance. Under the fabric layers are the
revolutionary light and thin armor fabric called The Belief. For the bold and
the tough.
 
- Z-War Camo Armor 
This is a heavy military armor powered by one Omen LMS unit. This armor is
fully sealed and it should stop anything but the most heaviest shells.
As a negative fact, this armor is quite clumsy to use.
 
- Z-War City Armor 
This is very-heavy military armor powered by two Omen LMS units. It
should stop almost anything they can fire/throw at you. This armor is very
clumsy to use. 
 
- Marine Armor 
Marine corps service armor. Combined kevlar and kinetic plates.








