
                     PAYBACKTIME TACTICS FILE v2.0
                            by E. Partanen
        
        CONTENTS:

1.0.    Foreword 

2.0.    Creating a new team
   2.1.    Generating warriors for a new team
   2.2.    Team: Machines of Hate: Hiring warriors
   2.3.    Machines of Hate: Strenghts and weaknesses
   2.3.    Shopping time
   2.4.    Machines of Hate goes shopping
   2.5.    Specialized teams

3.0.    Battle Options

4.0.    The game itself
   4.1.    Deployment
   4.2.    Moving into contact
   4.3.    When the action gets rough (the rough get going)
   4.4.    Multiplayer games
   4.5.    Computer controlled warriors (AI)
   4.6.    Single player games
   4.7.    The statistics screen
   4.8.    After the battle
   4.9.    Keys in the game (battle)

5.0.    Experienced teams
   5.1.    Spending skill points
   5.2.    Hiring new warriors to an experienced group       
   5.3.    Buying and selling equipment
   5.4.    How to beat experienced teams

6.0.    Using editors
   6.1.    Map editor
   6.2.    Mapping new areas
   6.3.    Weapon and item editors
   6.4.    Weapon and item sets

7.0.    Final words

8.0.    How to contact us













1.0.            FOREWORD


        This document is not just a tactics file: It's also the manual for the 
game and most of the options of the game Paybacktime 2 are covered herein. 
This document includes hints and tips for a new player (and why not for 
experienced as well) and since Paybacktime has always been poorly documented
this file is meant to address the problem. 
        This file is created by the betatesters of Paybacktime 1.02 & 1.2 &
1.5 & 2 and Paybactime's authors. The contents are things which we have 
learned during the two years when the Paybacktime was being developed.
There are also some addresses, phone phone numbers and e-mails of the 
betatesters and programmers if you happen to have questions. For registering 
information, refer to an another file.


2.0.            CREATING A NEW TEAM


2.1.            HIRING WARRIORS FOR A NEW TEAM


        When choosing whether to accept a warrior or not, there are six 
attributes to look at: hit points (HP), movement points (MP) reactions (RE),
firing accuracy (FA), throwing accuracy (TA) and melee accuracy (MA). How 
these six attributes affect a warrior should be quite self-explanatory, but
here are the explanations anyway.

Hit Points:     How much damage your warrior can sustain before dying. 
                Quite an important attribute especially if you are using 
                weak armors.

Movement Points:How quick your warrior is. However, this skill DOESN'T affect
                the rate of fire; shooting and melee attacks always use up a
                certain percentage of your MPs. Thus, more MPs => the 
                more MPs it costs to shoot. One of the most important 
                attributes, since slow warriors will be lagging behind and 
                won't be able to react as quickly as the ones with lots of 
                MPs.

Reactions:      This is the percentage which is used to determine if your  
                warrior notices an enemy which is moving in or into his  
                field of vision. If the enemy is noticed, your warrior will 
                fire providing he has MPs left and is in guarding mode.
                Also used as the chance to locate and untrap trapped doors. 

Firing Accuracy:(Warrior's FA + Weapons accuracy)/2 - range * 
                accuracy factor => warriors chance to hit. This chance is 
                further modified by the condition of the firing warrior, 
                darkness and other factors. 

Throwing Accuracy: Warrior's TA - range * constant => the chance to hit 
                when throwing grenades or other items. 

Melee Accuracy: As FA, but no modifiers for range.

@@@ You should note that you don't lose anything if you choose a warrior, whether
you need her/him or not. If you reject the warrior, you just lose 3000 Cr. 
By accepting that piece of crap you're offered you don't lose (much) money. 
And who knows: (s)he might find a gun somewhere and do something useful. 
If (s)he's lucky. @@@

2.2.            TEAM: MACHINES OF HATE


NAME            HP      MP      RE      FA      TA      MA  
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Replica         49      51      45      64 *    56      46
Flashpoint      51      51      53      51      65 *    40
Christine       65 *    67 *    53      51      47      41
Body Hammer     44      54      49      41      58      58
H-K             42      55      54      59      45      63 *
Fixer Laude     46      55      47      58      65 *    43

(Skills marked with an asterisk (*) are quite impressive for a beginner
team.)

        This is an example team, and teams like this one are a common sight 
on the battlefield, since most new teams tend to start with 5-8 warriors. 
Let's look at each warrior individually and analyze the strengts and 
weaknesses of each warrior and the whole team.

REPLICA
        All of his attributes are rather poor except FA, so it's quite
evident what this man will be doing on the battlefield. Yes, you quessed it, 
he'll get to be a sniper of some kind. 

FLASHPOINT
        The only thing he can do well is to throw things (like grenades), but 
the other attributes are weak. No particular role for this man, i'm afraid.  

CHRISTINE
        Well, here we have a good warrior. She has lots of MPs, she's tough 
and she even has average RE and FA. As the best warrior in the team, she'll
probably have to handle the most dangerous tasks and might, if handled
carefully, survive the first battle to become an excellent veteran. 

BODY HAMMER
        Slow, weak and can't shoot. He has good TA and MA though, and it's
fun to have different warriors so he'll receive a melee weapon and some 
grenades. You'll receive four times more skillpoints with melee attacks so 
he might turn into a formidable warrior if he survives. Of course he could 
pick up a weapon from a killed enemy warrior.

H-K
        If we forget the weak HPs of this warrior, he's good. Maybe he 
shouldn't be as close to the enemy as others so a weapon with a good accuracy
and accuracy factor will suit him best.

FIXER LAUDE
        He's very similar to H-K. Same things apply to this man as to H-K.


MACHINES OF HATE: STRENGHTS AND WEAKNESSES
        

        Machines of Hate has no important weaknesses. All the warriors have 
quite average attributes, some have more average than others. The warriors  
should be able to fight any beginner team and give a quite good challenge. 
The only thing that's missing is more warriors with MPs over 60, but you 
can't get everything. 
Strengths? The team's strength is that it has no weaknesses. 


2.3.            SHOPPING TIME


        Paybacktime 2.0 has "only" up to a hundred different weapons and up 
to fifty different items (plus the three different flares), so you should 
have quite a few weapons and items to choose from. On the other hand, 
depending on how experienced your team is, you will only propably have about
60 weapons and 25 items to choose from.
        Weapons have 15 different attributes which are explained below.        
        
Weapon type:    Weapon's type is one of the following: Projectile weapon, 
                energy weapon, melee weapon or explosive. The weapons type 
                affects the attributes which are available to it. For 
                example, melee weapons do not have a clip size. If a certain
                attribute is available only to a certain weapon type, it is
                mentioned along with the attribute on this document. 

Weapon name:    Hmm... What could it be? I really don't know. It's a mystery 
                really, since I've never understood it. But I know that THEY
                are behind it and someday I will reveal the truth to the
                whole world! Just wait and see... 

Price:          The cost of the weapon.

Accuracy %:     Accuracy percentage means how accurate the gun is initially, 
                before adding modifiers for range etc. Remember: (Warriors 
                FA + Weapons accuracy)/2 - range * Accuracy factor.

Accuracy factor: How much the accuracy goes down with every square which is 
                between the firer and the target. Look at the formula above.

Damage:         Weapons damage looks like this: Random X + Y, where x is the
                maximum amount of random damage (which means that the random
                amount of damage will vary from 0 (zero) to X) and Y is a
                constant (which is the amount of damage weapon will always 
                make). The formula is clearer with brackets: (Random X) + Y. 

Explosion factor: How many points the damage of the explosion will moderate 
                (go down) for each square away from the point of explosion. 
                For example, if a grenade's explosion factor is 5 and the
                explosion does 30 damage, the damage will be 20 in the 
                squares which are two squares away from the center of the 
                explosion. The weapon doesn't do any damage to squares which 
                are outside of it's radius. Not available to energy or melee 
                weapons. 

Explosion radius: The radius of the explosion caused by the weapon. Notice: 
                radius, NOT diameter!!! Diameter = 2 * radius! Not available
                to energy weapons.

MPs cost %:     The amount of MPs it costs to fire a single shot with the 
                weapon or use it to hit the enemy warrior if it's a melee
                weapon. Note that this attribute depends on the amount of MPs
                the firer has (percentages...) Aimed shots cost twice the 
                amount of MPs and when firing an automatic weapon this is the 
                cost of MPs the FIRST shot. This is also the cost of priming 
                the explosive (if the weapon in case is an explosive).

MPs cost auto %:How many MPs it cost to fire a shot on autofire. Note that 
                the first shot fired still cost the same amount of MPs as 
                firing a single shot. Only available to projectile weapons.  
                
Hands required: How many hands the weapon requires to use. Only up to two!

Maximum burst:  When a energy weapon is fired, you must choose the number of 
                burst you're going to fire and the damage inflicted is 
                multiplied by the number of bursts fired. For example if 
                you shoot with a weapon which does "random 5 + 10" damage and
                you fired three bursts, the damage would be 3*(random 5 + 10)
                = 3 * random 5 + 30. Note that the random amount of damage 
                is determined only once, so if the random amount would be
                three, the total damage would be 3 * 3 + 30 = 39. Each burst 
                equals a single round in the clip. Only available to energy
                weapons

Clip type:      The name of the clip this weapon uses. Note that the clips 
                with the same name aren't interchangeable. So that a clip 
                "20mm DPU" which was bought for a "20mm anti-aircraft gun" 
                won't fit in a "20mm TMG" which also uses clips named 
                "20mm DPU". Not available to melee weapons and explosives.

Clip size:      Clip size. 

Clip price:     The price of the clip.  
                
        These fifteen attributes SHOULD produce quite a good mix of weapons
for a team to choose from. But what kinds of weapons should you pick? That's
the hardest thing.
        First of all, look at your warriors and then think about your teams
strenghts and weaknesses. Then look at the weapons (it's a good idea to use 
a pen and paper to count the cost of your weapons and buy them after you're
satisfied with your choices) and choose the suitable ones.  
        I won't tell you which weapons are good and which arent, since how
good a weapon is depends on you. If you think the weapon's useful then it's 
good. But some words of advice: Don't put all your eggs in a single basket!
I mean: Don't buy a single super-weapon and think you'll annihilate your 
opponent with a single super-warrior. Every warrior's vulnerable, especially
to grenades, so it's a good idea to give grenades to some warriors. 
        Buy armors first. Or better: plan everything first on paper and then
buy the stuff. Do not forget medikits, unless you like to lose a warrior per
bullet which hits your warrior. Don't underestimate the power of flares  
(they're cheap too). Weapons which can destroy walls can chew away cover 
from enemy warriors. Explosives kill even the toughest warriors. 
        Some words on armors: warriors should always be armored when sent 
to the battlefield. Why? Since bleeding is rather deadly, it's better to keep 
the bullets outside of your skin than inside. Even if the armor only 
protects your chest it is better than nothing. Two hits will almost always  
kill an unarmored warrior, but an armored warrior requires at least three 
hits. There's a big difference, and that might be the difference between 
life and death or victory and defeat. 
        The thing which makes explosives so effective is that they inflict
their damage to all six hit locations. So a single grenade can blow the 
enemy's head right off, since head's quite a vulnerable hit location. If 
the enemy's not wearing full body armor you can be quite sure that few arms
or legs will be blown apart even if the warrior is not killed outright. 
        There is only one way to find out if a weapon is good or not and 
that's by trying it out! So get your team out there and find weapons which 
suit you best. 

2.4.            MACHINES OF HATE GOES SHOPPING


        After the warriors have been generated, the team has 13200 Cr left. 
This money will be used for armors, items and weapons. Let's see what each 
warrior has:

REPLICA 
        The armor he's wearing is a neon urban armor and just that because
you won't lose any MPs for wearing it. I have a golden rule with armors: 
Never let an armor take your movement points to less than 50. Slow warriors
are almost useless. 
        As he was supposed to become a sniper of some kind, he's been given
a Omen P-Sniper and three clips. Energy weapons need a lot of clips. I 
also gave him a first aid pack (each warrior should have a medikit) and 
a small flare. I wouldn't have bought flares but I had nothing else to spend
my money on so flares were the best choice. 

FLASHPOINT
        Well, like most warriors in this team he's wearing Neon Urban Armor
and he has a medium flare and a first aid pack.
        The weapon he's carrying (.44 Renegade) I chose because the name was
too tempting to miss. He also has five clips for his pistol, because I had
a 1000 Cr to spare and didn't want to spend it all on flares.

CHRISTINE
        She's wearing a CA-1 Kevlar unlike the other warriors which have 
Neo Urban Armors. This is because she has about 10 more MPs than the other 
warriors and since they're supposed to move in a group she won't need them. 
CA-1 also gives some extra protection which is good. 
        The best warriors use the best weapons and she has a Synapse SMG, 
which is slightly inaccurate but still a efficient weapon. It's good on 
overwatch (guarding) too. Since the clip's as large as it is, she has only 
a single spare clip. I also gave her a first aid pack and a medium flare.

BODY HAMMER
        Melee weapons for this man, so he has an Omen Katana and since he
needs something which will kill a warrior from range I gave him a Fragment 
Grenade. Other stuff include a small flare, first aid pack and a Neon Urban
Armor.

H-K
        First the normal three: First Aid Pack, medium flare and Neon Urban 
Armor. He received a Omen Pulse Rifle which is accurate and effective weapon 
even from long ranges. As the energy weapons tend to empty their clips 
quickly I gave him three spare clips. 

FIXER LAUDE
        As above. 'nuff said?


2.5.            SPECIALIZED TEAMS


        Machines of hate is a common beginner team, becayse it has about 7 
warriors which are armed and armored and some warriors carry grenades. It's
a common sight on the battlefield, where the team doesn't stand out from 
the great gray sea of beginner teams. There are other types of beginner teams
and by trying different types and inventing new you will find the type of 
team which suits your style of playing. Here are some ideas which have been 
used in the past two years when PaybackTimes 1.02 & 1.2 & 1.5 & 2 were being
playtested.
        CLOSE ASSAULT TEAMS: These are teams with only melee weapons or 
with melee weapons and weapons which are next to useless from all ranges
except point blank. Of course this includes grenades.  
        There are some problems with these kinds of teams: They don't win 
without firearms and if each warrior has a melee weapon and a gun you don't
have enough credits to buy armor and so on. It might work with melee weapons
and grenades, but this type of team needs luck to win. But you get four times
more experience with melee weapons than with firearms...
        HUMAN BOMB FANATICS: This means teams armed only with grenades and 
nothing else. There's no need to buy armors for anybody, use the money 
instead on more warriors and grenades. There's no point in giving a warrior
more than two grenades, one is enough. That way you don't lose so much when 
your warrior dies. Believe me, there's going to be a lot of fatalities, and
most of them will be yours. But you always should have a few men to spare.


3.0.            BATTLE OPTIONS


        Before you can enter the game itself, there are some options to set.
These are "Enemy Reports","Ambient Light" and "Game Mode" (which means the 
three options which are named as "Classic", "Realistic" and "Extreme-reality". 
How these all affect the game itself are covered briefly herein:

Enemy reports:  When a warrior of yours sights an enemy warrior, it would be 
                logical that he would know that even as your turn starts. 
                Usually the warriors "forget" what has happened during 
                an opponents turn, but when enemy repors is enabled, the 
                warrior will tell you at the beginning of your turn if he 
                has seen enemy warriors. You will receive the location where
                the warrior was first sighted and the location where the  
                warrior was last seen. Your warrior will also inform you of
                the heading of the enemy warrior. 
                                                             
Ambient light:  This is the amount of light on the battlefield initially 
                (before the effect of the map's lights are applied). Ambient 
                light has values from 0 to 10, and if the ambient light has
                the value of 0 then there is no light on the battlefield. 
                On the value of 10 there are no need for lights, the whole   
                battlefield's bathing in sunlight. 

Classic:        Classic game mode means that you see the whole map all the 
                time and if a door is opened on the other side of the 
                battlefield you can see it on the map. 

Realistic:      On realistic mode map will only show you the areas which you 
                already have seen, so you will be mapping areas as you go. 
               
Extreme-reality: With extreme-reality mode the only things you see are the 
                areas which your warriors currently see and it's up to you
                to remember where everything is. 


4.0.            THE GAME ITSELF


4.1.            DEPLOYMENT


        Before you deploy your warriors, you should have a some kind of plan 
which you are going to follow to victory. If you don't, then you should make
one right away since there is no way you can beat you opponents just by 
reacting to their actions unless your opponents are doing the same thing.
        Think about your team, it's strengts and weaknesses and make you 
battle plan according to those. After that just deploy and you're ready to 
go and conquer. 
        Some advice thought: try to avoid your warriors from getting stuck 
at doors or narrow corridors and try to deploy less warriors in such areas. 
Make sure you know what your warriors are capable of doing and what you 
are planning to do with them. 
        If you have played the earlier versions of the game Paybacktime, you 
will notice that the warriors aren't anymore deployed automatically. Now you
have specific deployment areas in which to deploy your warriors. There are 
at least 20 squares worth of area for each team to deploy in. 

4.2.            MOVING INTO CONTACT


        After you have deployed, you should move your warriors according to 
your plan. Do not under any circumstances move your warriors too far away 
from the rest of the group or they will just be surrounded and killed. Have 
your warriors cover each other and if some of your warriors are faster than 
others have them move at the same pace as the slower warriors move. Otherwise
your group will just fall apart and the warriors will have to fight on their
own. This doesn't apply to your "expendable" warriors thought, but don't move
recklessly. Even those expendables might be the small thing which make the  
big difference between victory and defeat. 


4.3.            WHEN THE ACTION GETS ROUGH (THE ROUGH GET GOING)

 
        Even when the first warriors go down, try to keep your group together.  
In doing so you can react to surprises more efficently and you'll be able to 
cover your warriors efficently. Be ready for surprises and stick to you plan. 
If you change your plan in the middle of the game, you'll just start to 
react to your opponent's actions and you'll be fighting the battle on their 
terms. The uncertain will just get horribly killed. 
        Don't be afraid to fall back and regroup. If things get too hard, 
just retreat and come back after a while. If your warriors have to fight 
without anyone covering them they will just be surrounded and shot in the
back. 
        When you attack, don't be afraid to sacrifice your warriors if the
situation requires it. On the other hand, don't sacrifice them unless you 
are sure it is necessary. Don't send warriors to certain death, like charging
into a house when you know there are enemy warriors inside. Throw grenades  
inside and after that, go in. 
        There's also something which you should remember: When moving, try        
to place your warriors so that from whatever direction the enemy is coming 
from, the enemy warrior can only see one of your warriors. Keep the other  
warriors nearby, just behind the next door or somewhere hidden so they can 
rescue the warrior your opponent saw and attacked or at least kill the 
attacker. This will reduce your losses a lot or at least you should  
be able to kill a warrior per warrior you lose. 
        In the end there's only one thing which you should remember: Follow 
your plan!
   
    
4.4.            MULTIPLAYER GAMES


        Multiplayer game is almost like a normal two-player game, except that
there are more opponents to kill than usually so take some extra ammunition 
with you. 
        There are some differences thought. You should remember that after 
your turn up to three opponents have a change to move and you might find 
yourself in a situation where most of your group has been slaughtered in a 
single turn. Just be twice as careful and twice as alert and you'll do fine.


4.5.            COMPUTER CONTROLLED WARRIORS (AI)


Computer controlled warriors usually outnumber you, have better weapons, 
armor and even the warriors have better statistics than yours but there's a
single thing that humans have which you must use to your advantage: a brain.
        There are four difficulty levels for computer warriors and how hard 
each one of those are to beat is explained briefly below:

Ridiculous:     The warriors are slighty worse than those of an inexperienced
                team.

Easy:           The warriors are about the same as in a team which has won a 
                single game. 

Average:        These are at least as good and well equipped as the best 
                human controlled teams can be (about 4 victories)

Challenging:    Well, let's say it's challenging. Or should I say: Daemons 
                from the darkest pits of a place which makes hell look like
                a children's playground.

        Don't think that ridiculous computer team is easy to win: You couldn't
be further away from the truth. Easy teams are quite hard to beat with a 
beginner team. Challenging has never been won fairly (with inexperienced team), 
although we have tried. 
        Do not try to fight the computer face to face: try to get it to do 
what you want it to do. Lure several of it's warriors into a room and then 
throw grenades. Trap the doors which you thing it will be using. Don't leave 
your warriors close to a location where you know an uninjured enemy warrior 
is and try to keep out of sight. These are only few tricks which work, but 
you should always remember that even the touhgest warriors can be killed with 
grenades - eventually. 


4.6.            SINGLE PLAYER GAMES


        Paybacktime was originally created for two human players and AI is 
only an additional feature. Playing against the computer is nothing when 
compared to playing against a human player. The computer is a lot easier to 
beat and it should be considered unfair to play against a team which has 
only fought against computer opponents with a team which has had a hard time
fighting against other human opponents. 
        PAYBACKTIME WAS ORIGINALLY CREATED FOR HUMAN VS. HUMAN BATTLES. WE
(THE AUTHORS AND BETATESTERS) CONSIDER COMPUTER OPPONENTS JUST AS RANDOM 
ENCOUNTERS IN MULTIPLAYER GAMES OR TESTDUMMIES FOR NEW MAPS OR WEAPON AND 
ARMOR SETS.     


4.7.            THE STATISTICS SCREEN   


        After the battle's over, you'll see a screen filled with statistics
of the game. There are 12 things which are shown on the statistics screen 
which are explained below. It should be said that the bars are relative to
the highest amount in the last battle, so if the red team had 12 casualities
and the other teams less than 10, then the red bar under the "corpses" 
subsection would be as long as possible and the other teams bars would be
relative to that.

Survivors:      How many warriors from each team survived.

Corpses:        The amount of dead warriors in each team.

Shots fired:    Shots fired with energy or projectile weapons.

Accuracy:       The average accuracy with melee and shooting attacks.

Damage caused:  How many points of damage was dealt by each team.

Damage penetrated: The amount of damage which the each team dealt and 
                was not stopped by armor.

HPs bleeded:    How many HPs worth the teams warriors bled. Yes, we know it
                should be "HPs bled", but so what. We don't care. 

MPs used:       MPs used by each team.  

Items found:    Items found in drawers by each team. 

Explosives primed: How many explosives were primed by each team. 

EXP gained:     The amount of skillpoints gained.

Money gained:   Money gained by each team. 


4.8.            AFTER THE BATTLE


        After the battle is over the first thing you should do is to chech 
your group from the group editor. Heal the warriors and spend the skillpoints
they have earned. You will also notice that you have received some money. 
The winning team always nets an amount of 40000 Cr and the loser gets nothing.
You also receive money for killing enemy warriors, 10000 Cr each, and all the
equipment left on the battlefield is collected by the winner. 
        The losing team(s) are usually left with about 30000-70000 Cr which 
is by no means enough to build a new team from scratch although you can try. 
It's quite common that beginner teams are disbanded (deleted) after the 
first battle if they lose. 
        The amount of money and equipment in multiplayer games is slightly 
different. The equipment is randomly dealt to all winners and each team 
receives the same amount of equipment, but the equipment is not necessarily 
worth even quite the same amount of credits. 


4.9.            KEYS IN THE GAME (BATTLE)

Here's a complete list of the keys used while in the battle with short 
descriptions:

F1:             Helpscreen, with the same key describtions as in here. 

F2:             Enable/disable fast game mode.

Backspace:      Select an option from the menu on the left.

Page up & page down: Change menu option. 

Q:              Quit, F10 confirms.               

Esc:            End turn, Y confirms.

N:              Next warrior.

Arrows:         Move warrior.

Enter (return): Shoot.

Space:          Open/close door.

T:              Throw an item / trap a door (a grenade must be held in hand).

P:              Pick up / examine (a drawer or a door for items/traps)

A:              Give first aid (a medikit must be carried in hand).

H:              Show health screen.

I:              Inventory.

S:              Show statistics of the warrior.

G:              Guarding mode on/off

V:              View map.

L:              Dummy light enabled/disabled (the dummy light doesn't affect
                any line of sights or shooting. It's just there to help you 
                to find your way in total darkness.)

F:              Freescroll mode.

W:              Show weapon(s) currently in hand(s).

R:              Music on/off.

E:              Sound effects enabled/disabled.

M:              Attack with a melee weapon


6.0.            EXPERIENCED TEAMS


5.1.            SPENDING SKILLPOINTS


        A warrior gains 300-600 skillpoints for just surviving the battle and
additional skillpoints for each hit with any weapon:

        Grenades / explosive projectiles = 1 pts.
                   Ordinary projectiles  = 2 pts.
                   Melee weapons         = 4 pts.

        Usually a surviving warrior has gained from 400 to 800 skillpoints
and these can be used to heighten the attributes of a warrior. Different
attributes cost a different amount of skillpoints to increase and the costs
are defined below:

HP:     Current HP / 2
MP:     Current MP / 2
RE:     Current RE * 3
FA:     Current FA * 2
TA:     Current TA
MA:     Current MA

        How the skillpoints should be spent is up to you. Usually it's a good
idea to spend skillpoints to increase the warriors weak attributes to an 
average level. Especially HP and MP are important, the latter more so. 


5.2.            HIRING NEW WARRIORS TO AN EXPERIENCED GROUP


        After your group has won a few battles, there's no need to hire 
warriors with bad attributes. Your team's the best, so you can afford to hire
only the best warriors. 


5.3.            BUYING AND SELLING EQUIPMENT  


        After winning a single battle, your team has gained some money but
most of all, lots of weapons and armor. It's a good idea to use the equipment
you've gained instead of selling it all and buying new, since by selling stuff
you only get a half of the items cost in return.  
        A team which has won two battles can survive even if it loses a single
game if you've saved some money and equipment instead of selling it all. Use 
what you get and buy the things you need (esp. better armors) but always 
leave something in storage in case you lose. 


5.4.            HOW TO BEAT EXPERIENCED TEAMS


        Even a team which has won a single battle is at least as dangerous as
two beginner teams combined. You can quess that it's quite hard to beat with 
an inexperienced team and you're right. But there are some things you can do.
        TEAM UP AGAINS THE EXPERIENCED TEAM. Three beginner teams should have
a chance agains a team which has won twice. Against teams which have won 
four or five times use at least two other less experienced teams and a single
beginner team. Multiplayer games are fun. And of course you could use a 
computer team instead of one of the teams fighting against the experienced 
team.
        DON'T PLAY FAIR. Create a team of human bombs. This tactic works
a bit better agains experienced teams than other beginner teams but it's 
boring and you tend to lose anyway. 
        OTHER EXPERIENCED TEAMS. The simplest way to beat experieced team is 
to use an another as experienced team as your opponent has. These games tend
to get large and long, so take two other beginner teams along, for example, 
one on each side. 


6.0.            USING EDITORS


6.1.            MAP EDITOR


        The map editor is created to allow players to create their own maps 
to battle in. How the editor works and the keys used is briefly described
below.
        When building new maps you will need at least twenty (20) deployment
areas for each team. In addition to that there's an another limitation:
the map must be from 35 to 100 squares wide and from 25 to 100 squares high. 
        There are also three boxes on the left; they are marked with a T, D 
and L (Terrain, Deployment, Light).

F1      The size of the light changes (you can see it in the light box).
        Yellow lights can be shot and broken but red ones can't. 

F2      Put the light you've chosen with F1 to the square the pointer is in. 
        Note that you can only put lights in squares which don't already have
        a terrain piece which blocks line of sight. So lights can only be put
        in squares with a floor piece or a piece of grass. 

F3      Decrease the amount of ambient light.

F4      Increase the amount of ambient light. Note that this doesn't affect
        the amount of ambient light you choose when you start a new battle.
        This feature only allows you to have a look at what the battlefield
        looks like in different lightning.

F5      Change the height and width of the map. 

F6      Deployment areas visible/invisible.

F7      Toggle lights on/off.

Space   Toggle 3D mode on/off.

R,B,G,Y Mark a square as a deployment area. R for red, B for blue, G for  
        green and Y for yellow. 

S       Save the map.

D       Deployment mode. On the left you see the deployment box in which 
        stands a letter "n". By pressing the "D" key it will turn into a "r". 
        Now when you run the cursor over a deployment area it will be removed. 
        By pressing "D" again the each square you run over with the cursor 
        will be markedas a deployment area of the team whose colour is 
        currently selected (you will see it in the box). 

L       Load a map

C       Continuous mode. When enabled, each square you run over with the 
        cursor will be turned into a square with the map piece you have 
        currently selected.

Esc     Quit

Enter   Lay down a currently selected map piece (you'll see it in the terrain 
        box).

Delete  Flood the entire map with the map piece currently chosen. 


6.2.            MAPPING NEW AREAS


        Some advice to a new map builder: Do not try to make too big maps. 
Maps which are about 50 high and wide are great for a two or three player 
game. Don't fill the rooms with all kinds of neat stuff. There should be 
little enough furniture that the game won't turn into a search of an enemy 
in a furniture jungle. The warriors need some space. 
        And as fun as it seems to fill the map with barrels and things that
go "BOOOM!", don't !!! Nothing's more stupid than end the game on the first 
turn as 99% of the map suddently disappears with 100% of the warriors in 
all teams. 


6.3.            WEAPON AND ITEM EDITORS


        When the map editor is meant for maps these two different editors
are meant for weapons and items (& armors) respectively. There aren't many
keys in both of them; all you need are the cursor keys (the arrows) and
enter (return). Note that in all editors the "S" key is the save button!!!


6.4.            WEAPON AND ITEM SETS

        Please refer to the PT2DATAS.TXT file.

7.0.            FINAL WORDS

        What is there left to say? I could write here something very nice and
earth shaking, but why should I? After all the best way to learn a game is
to play it. So what are ya waitin' for? Go on and beat the hell out of 'em.

                                                               - N. Nevatie

8.0.            HOW TO CONTACT US


	You can reach the developers either by email or phone:


           		Niko Nevatie		Kari Luojus

	   email: 	niko@nees.nu		kluojus@cc.hut.fi 	
           phone: 	358503838621		358405058417


